this turtle was found in the back of a
power plant canal with a pretty big
chunk missing from the back for shell we
had to figure out a way to fill that gap
and to keep it from getting worse so
we're faced with this challenge that as
she's growing that gap that's in the sea
turtles show wants to come together and
as it's coming together the hump in the
back is becoming more significant so
then we talked to engineering groups we
also had doctors from local hospitals to
talk to our veterinarian experts and
just comes down to you need to stop the
shell from coming together so what can
we do with 3d printing the the
possibilities seem limitless the
question was how do we make a brace that
will work well in a saltwater
environment and won't degrade over time
I don't usually work with ocean animals
in my work this was a pretty special set
of circumstances for us he came up with
this really ingenious idea of filling
that space within the turtle so it fits
perfectly we were able to work with
another research group at Scripps
Institution of Oceanography they came
and they scanned the rear of the sea
turtle Scott took that information was
able to put it into a program I got this
3d scan of the turtle shell which had
the good half of the shell and then
there's two half with the big chunk
taken out of it so all I really had to
do was mirror the good half over the bad
half subtract the bad half from the good
half so I'm left with this perfectly
fitting plug and the top of it even
mirrored the other side so it still had
all the sort of shapes and designs and
grooves on the top of the shell that the
other side had the next step was to
print it out we went down there and did
a fitting I went down I thought I was
gonna have to be like a tailor I came
with with all these sharpies and extra
tools and measuring tapes thinking I'd
have to make so many tweaks but it just
fit perfectly the first try we use a
marine epoxy which is similar to the
kinds that you would use on boats to fit
it around the turtle she didn't even
notice that we were doing anything
honestly at that point the the turtle
was very relaxed and it takes about two
hours for that marine epoxy to dry
enough that it could have gone back in
we also bandaged her just in case you
know a stingray or a grouper would bump
her or she would hit the exhibit in some
way so she was bandaged for about two
days you would have never known it she
went straight to feeding she acted
completely normal and that was that I
felt I felt so fantastic to see the the
brace working I'm done really amazed
that you know this was something that we
had the capability to do an injury to
the back flippers and the spine meant
that she can't be released back into the
wild we're so glad we found a way to fix
her shell and give her some better
mobility with four dollars worth of
plastic and and these consumer great
machines and a little bit of know-how we
were able to to make it all work I know
nothing about turtles I don't know
anything about sea creature it's amazing
that right now you can just pick up a
technology and
you know dive deep into it and the
applications just come we believe this
is one of the first times that this has
possibly ever been done if not the first
time it's so exciting I think to just be
able to scan something and be able to
ask someone to help you and have it
print it and then it's like a perfect
fit that's like amazing for people
that's amazing for the animals and to be
able to take this technology and make a
difference in an animal is huge
none of these jobs existed even a couple
years ago so everyone in my position
pretty much built their own job around
new technology
wouldn't it be super cool to be able to
replace other body parts of animals to
help them live out long lives I mean I
just think there's so many applications
for it 3d printing has added so many new
capabilities the limits the barriers
they all come down and applications and
contributions towards science are going
to be huge
[Music]
you